Quickstart
👋 Welcome to AWS Amplify! In this quickstart guide, you will:
deploy an Amplify backend database and authentication
connect to the backend from an Android app
make backend updates
To get started faster, we've created a starter "To-do" Amplify backend. First, create a repository in your GitHub account using our starter template.
Use our starter template to create a repository in your GitHub account. This template scaffolds an Amplify Backend with Auth and Data capabilities.
Create repository from template
Now that the repository has been created, deploy this to Amplify's CI/CD pipeline.
Deploy to AWS
Select
GitHub
, pick the starter repository, and hit "Save and Deploy".
While you are waiting for your app to deploy (~5 mins)
Learn about the project structure
Let's take a tour of the project structure in this starter repository. The starter application already has pre-written code to give you a real-time database with a feed of all to-do items and the ability to add new items.
Close accordion
When the build completes, visit the newly deployed branch by selecting the branch name and then looking at the
Deployed backend resources
section under deployments.
Let's learn how to enhance the app functionality by creating a delete flow for to-do list items.
If you do not have an existing Android app.
Setup Android project
Open Android Studio.
Select
+ Create New Project.
In
Select a Project Template
, select
Empty Activity
or
Empty Compose Activity
. Press
Next
.
Enter
MyAmplifyApp
in the
Name
field
Select either
Java
or
Kotlin
from the
Language
dropdown menu
Select
API 24: Android 7.0 (Nougat)
from the
Minimum SDK
dropdown menu
Press
Finish
Close accordion
On the
Deployed backend resources
, choose
Download outputs file
to download the
amplify_outputs.json
file that contains identifiers for all the deployed backend resources.
Now move the
amplify_outputs.json
file you downloaded above to
app/src/main/res/raw
in your Android project. You will now be able to connect to this backend.
The
amplify_outputs.json
file contains backend endpoint information, publicly-viewable API keys, authentication flow information, and more. The Amplify client library uses this outputs file to connect to your Amplify Backend.
Close accordion
Amplify uses some modern Java APIs that require desugaring to be added for earlier versions of Android. In your app/build.gradle.kts add the following lines:
The deployed backend application already has a pre-configured auth backend defined in the
amplify/auth/resource.ts
file.
The fastest way to get your login experience up and running is to use our Authenticator UI component. To use the Authenticator UI component, you need to add the following dependencies to your app/build.gradle.kts file:
Be sure to have compileSdk version as 34 or higher.
Afterwards create a
MyAmplifyApp
class that extends
Application
and add the following code:
Next call this class in your
AndroidManifest.xml
file:
Update
MainActivity.kt
to use the Android Authenticator component.
Now if you run the application on the Android emulator, you should see the authentication flow working.
The initial scaffolding already has a pre-configured data backend defined in the
amplify/data/resource.ts
file. The default example will create a Todo model with
content
field.
Amplify can automatically generate code for interacting with the backend API. The command below generates model classes from the Data schema:
Find your App ID in the Amplify Console
Looking for your App ID?
In the command below, replace the APP-ID with your Amplify app ID. Find this in the Amplify Console.
Close accordion
Once you are done, add the following dependencies to your project:
After adding the dependencies, open the
MyAmplifyApp
class and add the following line before the
configure
call:
Update the
MainActivity
class with the following code to create new to-do items. The
onClick
function will create a new Todo item.
Now it is time to add a logic to view the added items.
Now call
TodoList()
from the
onCreate()
function:
If you build and rerun the application, you should see the todo that was created in the previous build. But notice how when you click on the "create Todo" button, it doesn't add any new todos to the list below until the next time your app relaunches. To solve this, let's add real-time updates to the todo list.
To add real-time updates, you can use the subscription feature of Amplify Data. It allows to subscribe to
onCreate
,
onUpdate
, and
onDelete
events of the application. In our example, let's append the list every time a new todo is added.
Let's update our backend to implement per-user authorization rules, allowing each user to only access their own to-dos.
First, clone the deployed repository.
The backend to-do model is configured to share data across all users, but, in most cases, you want data to be isolated on a per-user basis.
To isolate the data on a per-user basis, you can use an "owner-based authorization rule". Let's apply the owner-based authorization rule to your to-do items:
Commit this change to your git repository. Amplify's CI/CD system will automatically pick up the changes and build and deploy the updates.
Now, let's go back to your Android application and test out the user isolation of the to-do items. Fetch the latest
amplify_outputs.json
and model files by re-running the following command in your Android Studio terminal.
Find your App ID in the Amplify Console
Looking for your App ID?
In the command below, replace the APP-ID with your Amplify app ID. Find this in the Amplify Console.
Close accordion
Also update your
amplify_outputs
file with the latest outputs information.
That's it! You have successfully built a fullstack app on AWS Amplify. If you want to learn more about how to work with Amplify, here's the conceptual guide for
how Amplify works
.