Amplify Documentation for React
AWS Amplify streamlines full-stack app development. With its libraries, CLI, and services, you can easily connect your frontend to the cloud for authentication, storage, APIs, and more.
Build fullstack apps with your framework of choice
AWS Amplify provides libraries for popular web and mobile frameworks, like JavaScript, Flutter, Swift, and React. Our guides, APIs, and other resources will help you build, connect, and host fullstack apps on AWS. Get started by selecting your preferred framework.
Features for React
Auth
Simple configuration
Easily configure auth for your app with Amplify CLI and Studio—supports login, MFA, social providers, and more. Then integrate auth with intuitive client library APIs.
Pre-built UI components
Quickly add polished auth and account UIs with <Authenticator> and <AccountSettings> UI components. Integrate seamlessly with minimal code.
User management
Manage and maintain full control of your user base in Amplify Studio, without writing code.
GraphQL API
Powerful data modeling
Model relationships between types, customize fields, and configure validation rules using the CLI or Amplify Studio's visual editor. Amplify turns your schema into fully implemented backend and frontend code.
Seamless real-time data access
Fetch and mutate data through generated GraphQL queries and mutations from your frontend. Sync data in real time and integrate backend data sources easily.
Granular authorization
Implement fine-grained authorization to securely access data, while controlling auth at the API level or on individual fields. Manage access with AWS IAM policies or your own auth provider.
Functions
Flexible runtime support
Write backend code in your preferred language or framework. Amplify handles deployment on AWS Lambda for serverless execution.
Local testing
Mock functions locally to build and test without deploying to the cloud. Debug and iterate rapidly by emulating function behavior on your local machine.
Event-driven workflows
Connect functions to data and auth events to trigger server-side workflows. Manage secrets, keys, and access controls.
Storage
Upload and Download files
Upload and download files to and from cloud storage with advanced controls like pausing and resuming upload operations.
Advanced file operations and access control
Manage content through APIs for listing, accessing, and manipulating files. Set file permission levels, configure automatic events and triggers, and more.
Cloud-connected UI components
Integrate pre-built UI components to upload, display, and manage cloud-stored content with minimal coding. Focus on building your app instead of writing boilerplate UI code