Sandbox features
Sandbox environments include additional features for managing secrets, deploying multiple sandboxes, config generation, and client codegen for your Amplify app.
Secrets set in a sandbox do not show up in the Amplify Console. You can view them in the AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Parameter Store console.
Amplify Gen 2 offers secure secret storage to manage sensitive data like API keys and database credentials. Secrets are similar to environment variables, but they are encrypted AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store key value pairs. Secrets are stored in AWS Parameter Store under the
/amplify
prefix.
You can add secrets to your sandbox environment using the following command:
After these commands, your sandbox will have two secrets named
foo
and
bar
.
You can list all of the secret names available in your sandbox environment with the following command:
Note:
This will print a secret value in plain text to the terminal. Do not use this command anywhere that terminal logs may be stored (such as CI/CD jobs).
To show the value of a secret, run the following command.
To remove a secret from from the sandbox, run the following command in your terminal:
To remove all secrets from the sandbox, run the following command in your terminal:
Once you have set a secret, you can reference the secret in your backend definition using the
secret()
function. The following example shows how to set up social sign-in with authentication in your app. Depending on your environment, Amplify will automatically load the correct secret value.
import
{
defineAuth
,
secret
}
from
'@aws-amplify/backend'
;
export
const
auth
=
defineAuth
(
{
Copy
highlighted code example
clientSecret
:
secret
(
'bar'
)
The
secret()
function does NOT retrieve the value of the secret. It places a reference to the secret value in the backend definition. The secret value is only resolved during deployment of your backend.
The
secret()
function can only be used in specific places in your backend definition such as
configuring auth providers
and
function secrets
.
Sometimes you might have multiple AWS profiles set up locally. To run
ampx sandbox secret
commands, use the
--profile
flag to deploy to a specific profile. For example, let's say you have two AWS profiles set up locally—
default
and
work
. To add secrets to the sandbox in the
work
profile, run the following command in your terminal:
Provisioning multiple sandboxes per app is possible but not recommended because managing multiple ephemeral environments for a single developer introduces complexity. With multiple sandboxes, it can be difficult to keep track of what code version or configuration is deployed where. Sticking to a single sandbox per developer keeps your workflows simpler.
You can create multiple sandboxes if you want to have different features or test environments available in different sandboxes. By default, your sandbox is named based on the local machine username. To override this name, use the
--identifier
option:
This will start a sandbox named
feature1sandbox
.
Once the deployment completes, exit sandbox and run the following command in the terminal:
After successful deployment, you will have two sandboxes
feature1sandbox
and
feature2sandbox
. You can switch between them but only one can be running at a time.
When working with multiple sandboxes, secrets must be configured for each one. All of the
sandbox secret
commands accept the
--identifier
argument to manage secrets for named sandboxes. For example, to add a secret to
feature1sandbox
, use:
Amplify offers the ability to stream function logs directly to your terminal or a file.
Learn more about streaming function logs
.
The client config, or
amplify_outputs.json
file, contains the configuration strings for interacting with AWS resources specific to an environment. The Amplify client libraries need the client config in order to use the library APIs to connect to backend resources. By default, the cloud sandbox generates the client configuration file at the root of the project (such as
@/amplify_outputs.json
). If you want to place the file at a different path (such as for a monorepo or Android app), run the following command in the terminal:
Alternatively, if you want to generate the config for a branch environment to test against, run the following command in the terminal.
Alternatively, if you want to generate the config for a branch environment to test against, you can run the following command below in the terminal:
For Web and React Native, generating the config with the default format and output directory.
Amplify Gen 2 introduces a fully typed experience for data that no longer requires an explicit codegen step, unlike in Amplify Gen 1. You will only need this command if you are building a mobile app or have Gen 1 requirements.
Codegen generates native code for Swift (iOS), Java (Android), and JavaScript that represents your GraphQL API's data models. It can also generate GraphQL statements (queries, mutations, and subscriptions) so that you don't have to manually code them.
Once your sandbox completes a deployment, you can run the following command in the terminal to generate client code that is specific to your needs:
You can delete a cloud sandbox environment in several ways:
Ctrl+C your sandbox and choose to delete resources.
Run
npx ampx sandbox delete
or
npx ampx sandbox delete --name
Visit the Amplify console and
delete sandboxes
.