Microsoft Entra ID (SAML)
Microsoft Entra ID can be configured as a SAML provider for use with Amazon Cognito. Integrating Entra ID enables you to sign in with your existing enterprise users, and maintain profiles unique to the Amplify Auth resource for use within your Amplify app. To learn more, visit the
Azure documentation for SAML authentication with Microsoft Entra ID
.
Note:
the following guidance showcases configuration with your
personal cloud sandbox
. You will need to repeat the configuration steps for branch deployments after confirming functionality against your sandbox.
To get started, define your auth resource with the appropriate redirect URIs:
Deploy to your personal cloud sandbox with
npx ampx sandbox
. This will generate a domain you can use to configure your new Entra ID App. After deploying your changes successfully, copy the generated
domain
value from
amplify_outputs.json
Next, navigate to
portal.azure.com
, select
Entra ID
. In your default directory, or company's existing directory, under
Manage
, select
Enterprise Applications
Afterwards, select
New application
, then select
Create your own application
. Specify a name for the application and choose
Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)
Now that you have created the new enterprise application you can begin to configure Single Sign-on with SAML. Select
Single sign-on
Then select
SAML
You will be directed to a page to set up single sign-on with SAML, which needs a few pieces of information from your Amplify Auth resource.
In the
Basic SAML Configuration
step, select
Edit
and populate with the appropriate values.
Warning:
there is a known limitation where upstream sign-out functionality successfully signs out of Entra ID, but fails to redirect back to the user app. This behavior is disabled by default with SAML integrations in Amplify Auth.
Save the configuration and proceed to Step 3's
SAML Certificates
section. Copy the
App Federation Metadata Url
Now that you've configured your SAML provider with Microsoft Entra ID and copied the
App Federation Metadata Url
, configure your auth resource with the new SAML provider and paste the URL value into the
metadataContent
property:
User attributes can be found in Step 2's
Attributes & Claims
section, and are prefixed with a namespace by default. The example above shows mapping the default claim for the SAML user's email address, however additional attributes can be mapped.
In the AWS Console, navigate to your Cognito User Pool. Select the identity provider,
MicrosoftEntraIDSAML
, created after configuring Amplify Auth with the Entra ID SAML provider. Select
View signing certificate
and
download as .crt
Rename the file extension to
.cer
in order to upload to Azure. On the
Single sign-on
page, scroll down to
Step 3
(
SAML Certificates
), and under
Verification Certificates (optional)
, select
Edit
.
Select
Require verification certificates
and upload the certificate.
Save your changes, and now requests to Entra ID from your Cognito User Pool will be verified.
Now your users are ready to sign in with Microsoft Entra ID. To sign in with this custom provider, specify the provider name as the name specified in your auth resource definition:
MicrosoftEntraIDSAML