Use Amazon Q Developer with Amplify
Amazon Q Developer
is a generative artificial intelligence (AI) powered conversational assistant that can help you understand, build, extend, and operate AWS applications. You can ask questions about AWS architecture, your AWS resources, best practices, documentation, support, and more. Amazon Q is constantly updating its capabilities so your questions get the most contextually relevant and actionable answers. When used in an integrated development environment (IDE), Amazon Q provides software development assistance. Amazon Q can chat about code, provide inline code completions, generate net new code, scan your code for security vulnerabilities, and make code upgrades and improvements, such as language updates, debugging, and optimizations.
Q Developer in the IDE provides
inline code suggestions
in real time. As you write code, Amazon Q automatically generates suggestions based on your existing code and comments. When you start typing out single lines of code or comments, Amazon Q makes suggestions based on your current and previous inputs. Inline suggestions are automatically enabled when you download the Amazon Q extension.
Amazon Q is available as an extension in Visual Studio Code and a plugin in JetBrains. Amazon Q is also available in the AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio. To get started, please visit
Install Amazon Q Developer
.
Amplify generates two folders in your backend directory,
auth
and
data
, which contain TypeScript AWS CDK definitions for each of these resources. We’ll build out the schema for our API through the help of Amazon Q Developer's inline code suggestion capabilities.
Step 1:
Open
amplify/data/resource.ts
and comment out the default schema for Todo provided.
Step 2:
In a new line below the commented schema, enter a comment to generate the schema using natural language. For example,
generate a restaurant model with the following fields: id, name, description, address, image, rating, style. Rating can be a float value. Authorization should allow public.
Press
Enter
for a new line and wait for Amazon Q Developer to generate inline code suggestion for your schema.
Step 3:
Select the inline code suggestion generated by Amazon Q developer. The inline code suggestion feature assists you in defining the schema and hover over the output to select from other options.
Note:
You can also trigger inline code suggestion feature by invoking Amazon Q Developer manually using Option+C keyboard shortcut in VS Code. For more commands, please refer to the Commands tab in the Amazon Q extension.
Step 4:
Make any required changes to the schema and save the
amplify/data/resource.ts
file. This will trigger a sandbox deployment and your new data model will be deployed
Adding
@workspace
to your question in Amazon Q automatically incorporates the most relevant parts of your workspace code as context, using an index that updates periodically. For more information on
@workspace
functionality, please visit
Amazon Q Developer - Workspace Context
.
The files below provide detailed guides that can be included as context with the
@workspace
command, enhancing Amazon Q's accuracy in generating AWS Amplify Gen 2 code.
Download the files and follow the steps below to use the
@workspace
in your Amplify project
Step 1:
Create a folder in the root of your project and give a descriptive name such as
context
. Add the files downloaded above to this folder.
Step 2:
Open Amazon Q Developer Chat in your IDE and type
@workspace
to enable workspace indexing. Follow Amazon Q's prompts to set up indexing for your project directory.
Step 3:
After successful indexing, reference the markdown file content in your queries to Amazon Q. Examples: