List file properties
You can list files without having to download all the files. You can do this by using the
list
API from the Amplify Library for Storage. You can also get properties individually for a file using the
getProperties
API.
Note the trailing slash
/
- if you had requested
list({ path :  'album/photos' })
it would also match against files like
album/photos123.jpg
alongside
album/photos/123.jpg
.
The format of the response will look similar to the below example:
If the
pageSize
is set lower than the total file size, a single
list
call only returns a subset of all the files. To list all the files with multiple calls, users can use the
nextToken
flag:
Manually created folders will show up as files with a
size
of 0, but you can also match keys against a regex like
file.key.match(/\.[0-9a-z]+$/i)
to distinguish files from folders. Since "folders" are a virtual concept in Amazon S3, any file may declare any depth of folder just by having a
/
in its name.
To access the contents and subpaths of a "folder", you have two options:
Request the entire path and parse the contents.
Use the subpathStrategy option to retrieve only the files within the specified path (i.e. exclude files under subpaths).
This retrieves all files and folders under a given path. You may need to parse the result to get only the files within the specified path.
If you need the files and folders in terms of a nested object instead (for example, to build an explorer UI), you could parse it recursively:
This places each item's data inside a special
__data
key.
In addition to using the
list
API to get all the contents of a path, you can also use it to get only the files within a path while excluding files under subpaths.
For example, given the following keys in your
path
you may want to return only the jpg object, and not the "vacation" subpath and its contents:
This can be accomplished with the
subpathStrategy
option:
The response will include only the objects within the
photos/
path and will also communicate any excluded subpaths:
The default delimiter character is '/', but this can be changed by supplying a custom delimiter:
You can also perform an
copy
operation to a specific bucket by providing the
bucket
option. This option can either be a string representing the target bucket's assigned name in Amplify Backend or an object specifying the bucket name and region from the console.
You can also view the properties of an individual file.
The properties and metadata will look similar to the below example
To get the metadata in result for all APIs you have to configure user defined metadata in CORS.
Learn more about how to setup an appropriate
CORS Policy
.