Set up Amplify Auth
Amplify Auth is powered by
Amazon Cognito
. Cognito is a robust user directory service that handles user registration, authentication, account recovery, and other operations.
Review the concepts to learn more
.
To get started with defining your authentication resource, open or create the auth resource file:
By default, your auth resource is scaffolded using
email
as the default login mechanism. You can also configure your auth resource to allow signing in with phone numbers or an external provider such as Google, Facebook, Amazon, or Sign in with Apple.
Note:
At a minimum you will need to pass a
loginWith
value to set up how your users sign in to your app. Signing in with email and password is configured by default if you do not provide any value.
After you have chosen and defined your authentication resource, run the following command to create your resource in your personal cloud sandbox.
After a successful deployment, this command also generates an outputs file (
amplify_outputs.json
) to enable your frontend app to connect to your backend resources. The values you configure in your backend authentication resource are set in the generated outputs file to automatically configure the frontend
Authenticator connected component
.
Creating and correctly implementing the sign-in flow can be challenging and time-consuming. Amplify's Authenticator UI component streamlines this by enabling you to rapidly build the entire authentication flow for your app. The component works seamlessly with configuration in
amplify/auth/resource.ts
to automatically connect with your backend resources.
Amplify has pre-built UI components for React, Vue, Angular, React Native, Swift, Android, and Flutter. In this guide, we are focusing on those for web applications.
First, install the
@aws-amplify/ui-react
library:
Next, open
pages/_app.tsx
and add the
Authenticator
component.
Once you add the Authenticator component to your app, you can test the sign-up, sign-in, and sign-out functionality. You can also
customize the Authenticator connected component
to adjust colors and styling as needed.
Now that you have completed setting up authentication in your Amplify app with email and password, you may also want to add some additional features. We recommend you learn more about: