Fullstack previews
With fullstack previews, you can set up ephemeral fullstack environments on every pull request. This allows you to test features in isolation from production. Once fullstack previews are enabled, your typical workflow would look like the following diagram:
Your
main
(production branch) and
featureA
branch are deployed on Amplify.
You and your team work on
featureA
until it's ready.
The
featureA
branch is updated to
main
HEAD and then a pull request to
main
is opened.
The pull request preview is deployed on Amplify and available at
pr-1.appid.amplifyapp.com
.
Once the pull request is merged into
main
, the request is closed and the fullstack environment is also automatically torn down.
Before you get started, make sure you have the following:
A fullstack Amplify app deployed
Ensure that your git repository is private. For security purposes, fullstack previews are disabled for public repositories with Amplify backend templates.
To enable fullstack web previews for your Amplify app, follow these steps:
Login to the
Amplify console
and select your app.
Navigate to
Hosting > Previews
. Select the
main
branch and click on
Edit settings
.
Click on the
Pull request previews
toggle button and choose
Confirm
to enable previews.
Done! You have successfully enabled previews on the production branch.
Ship updates to the
dev
branch. Now, when you create a pull request for the
main
branch, Amplify will build and deploy your fullstack PR and provide you with a preview URL.
For
GitHub repositories only
, you can access your preview URL directly on the pull request from the Amplify Hosting's bot comment:
After the pull request is merged or closed, the preview URL is deleted and any ephemeral fullstack environment is also deleted.
Fullstack previews allow teams a way to preview changes from pull requests before merging code to a production branch. Pull requests let you tell others about changes you’ve pushed to a branch in a repository and the changes can be reviewed by accessing the preview URL. When previews are enabled on a git branch, by default every pull request created against the git branch creates an ephemeral fullstack environment.
In some instances, you may not want to deploy new resources for every preview branch. For example, you might want all your preview branches to point to the backend resources deployed by the
dev
branch so you can reuse seed data, users, and groups.
To achieve this, you can update your app build settings to reuse backend resources across your preview branches. In the Amplify console, select your app on the
All apps
page. From the
App overview
page, select
Hosting > Build settings
to view your app's build specification YAML file.
Update the build settings for the
backend
phase to run
npx ampx generate outputs --branch dev app-id $AWS_APP_ID
to generate the
amplify_outputs.json
file for all preview branches. After this update, any new deployed preview branches will not deploy backend resources as part of the build and instead will use the deployed backend resources from the
dev
branch.