Quickstart
👋 Welcome to AWS Amplify! In this quickstart guide, you will:
Deploy a Vue.js app
Build and connect to a database with real-time data updates
Configure authentication and authorization rules
We've created a starter "To-do" application to help get started faster. First, you will create a repository in your GitHub account using our starter Vue template.
Use our starter template to create a repository in your GitHub account. This template scaffolds
create-vite-app
with Amplify backend capabilities.
Create repository from template
Use the form in GitHub to finalize your repo's creation.
Now that the repository has been created, deploy it with Amplify.
Deploy to AWS
Select
GitHub
. After you give Amplify access to your GitHub account via the popup window, pick the repository and
main
branch to deploy. Make no other changes and click through the flow to
Save and deploy
.
While you are waiting for your app to deploy (~5 mins)
Learn about the project structure
Let's take a tour of the project structure in this starter repository by opening it on GitHub. The starter application has pre-written code for a to-do list app. It gives you a real-time database with a feed of all to-do list items and the ability to add new items.
Close accordion
When the build completes, visit the newly deployed branch by selecting "Visit deployed URL". Since the build deployed an API, database, and authentication backend, you will be able to create new to-do items.
In the Amplify console, click into the deployment branch (in this case
main
) > select
Data
in the left-hand menu >
Data manager
to see the data entered in your database.
Let's learn how to enhance the app functionality by creating a delete flow for to-do list items.
Now let's set up our local development environment to add features to the frontend. Click on your deployed branch and you will land on the
Deployments
page which shows you your build history and a list of deployed backend resources.
At the bottom of the page you will see a tab for
Deployed backend resources
. Click on the tab and then click the
Download amplify_outputs.json file
button.
Clone the repository locally.
Now move the
amplify_outputs.json
file you downloaded above to the root of your project.
The
amplify_outputs.json
file contains backend endpoint information, publicly-viewable API keys, authentication flow information, and more. The Amplify client library uses this outputs file to connect to your Amplify Backend.  You can review how the outputs file is imported within the
main.tsx
file and then passed into the
Amplify.configure(...)
function of the Amplify client library.
Close accordion
Go to the
components/Todos.vue
file and add in a new
deleteTodo
functionality and pass function into the
<li>
element's
onClick
handler.
Try out the deletion functionality now by starting the local dev server:
This should start a local dev server at
http://localhost:5173
.
The starter application already has a pre-configured auth backend defined in the
amplify/auth/resource.ts
file. We've configured it to support email and password login but you can extend it to support a variety of login mechanisms, including Google, Amazon, Sign In With Apple, and Facebook.
The fastest way to get your login experience up and running is to use our Authenticator UI component.
In your
src/App.vue
file, import the Authenticator UI component and wrap your
<main>
template.
The Authenticator component auto-detects your auth backend settings and renders the correct UI state based on the auth backend's authentication flow.
Try out your application in your localhost environment again. You should be presented with a login experience now.
To get these changes to the cloud, commit them to git and push the changes upstream.
Amplify automatically deploys the latest version of your app based on your git commits. In just a few minutes, when the application rebuilds, the hosted app will be updated to support the deletion functionality.
Let's update our backend to implement per-user authorization rules, allowing each user to only access their own to-dos.
To make backend updates, we are going to require AWS credentials to deploy backend updates from our local machine.
Skip ahead to step 8
, if you already have an AWS profile with credentials on your local machine, and your AWS profile has the
AmplifyBackendDeployFullAccess
permission policy.
Otherwise,
set up local AWS credentials
that grant Amplify permissions to deploy backend updates from your local machine.
To update your backend without affecting the production branch, use Amplify's cloud sandbox. This feature provides a separate backend environment for each developer on a team, ideal for local development and testing.
To start your cloud sandbox, run the following command in a
new Terminal window
:
Once the cloud sandbox has been fully deployed (~5 min), you'll see the
amplify_outputs.json
file updated with connection information to a new isolated authentication and data backend.
The
npx ampx sandbox
command should run concurrently to your
npm run dev
. You can think of the cloud sandbox as the "localhost-equivalent for your app backend".
The to-do items in the starter are currently shared across all users, but, in most cases, you want data to be isolated on a per-user basis.
To isolate the data on a per-user basis, you can use an "owner-based authorization rule". Let's apply the owner-based authorization rule to your to-do items:
In the application client code, let's also render the username to distinguish different users once they're logged in.
Now, let's go back to your local application and test out the user isolation of the to-do items.
You will need to sign up new users again because now you're working with the cloud sandbox instead of your production backend.
To get these changes to the cloud, commit them to git and push the changes upstream.
Once your build completes in the Amplify Console, the
main
backend will update to support the changes made within the cloud sandbox. The data in the cloud sandbox is fully isolated and won't pollute your production database.
That's it! You have successfully built a fullstack app on AWS Amplify. If you want to learn more about how to work with Amplify, here's the conceptual guide for
how Amplify works
.